Update initial draft (#1)
privacysandbox/draft-ietf-protected-audience-key-value-service: draft-ietf-protected-audience-key-value-server-api.md

---
coding: utf-8

> title: "Protected Audience Key Value Service APIs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Protected Audience Key Value Services
```

> abbrev: "KV Servers APIs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
abbrev: "KV Services"
```

> docname: draft-ietf-protected-audience-key-value-server-api-latest

Reviewer: Hmm should we change "server-api" to "services" here and in the file name and in README.md?

Author: updated

category: std
submissionType: IETF

area: TBD
workgroup: TBD
keyword: Internet-Draft

ipr: trust200902

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    name: Peiwen Hu
    organization: Google
    email: peiwenhu@google.com
 -
    ins: B. R. Hamilton
    name: Benjamin "Russ" Hamilton
    organization: Google
    email: behamilton@google.com

normative:
  CBOR: RFC8949
  CDDL: RFC8610
  JSON: RFC8259
  OHTTP: RFC9458
  HPKE: RFC9180
  GZIP: RFC1952
  Brotli: RFC7932

informative:

--- abstract

The Key Value Service provides real-time signals to ad auctions while preserving user privacy.

--- middle

# Introduction

Protected Audience is a privacy advancing API that facilitates
interest group based advertising.
Key Value Servers in Protected Audience are used to add

> real-time signals into ad selection for both buyers and sellers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key Value Services are used by Protected Audience to provide
real-time signals to buyers and sellers during ad selection.
```

The Protected Audience proposal leverages Key Value

> servers to incorporate real-time signals into ad selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services to incorporate real-time signals into ad selection.
```

> These servers utilize User-Defined Functions (UDFs) to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These services utilize User-Defined Functions (UDFs) to
```

While event-level logging is explicitly prohibited, the servers
may have operational side effects like monitoring to ensure
security and prevent abuse.

## Scope

This document provides a specification for the request and response message format that a client can
use to communicate with the Key Value Service as part of the client's implementation of the
Protected Audience API.

This document does not describe distribution of private keys to the Key Value Service.

## Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT",
"RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as
described in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}} when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as
shown here.

The key word "client" is to be interpreted as an implementation of this document that creates
Requests ({{request}}) and consumes Responses ({{response}}). The key phrase "Key Value Service" is
to be interpreted as an implementation of this document that consumes Requests and creates
Responses.

# Message Format Specifications {#format}

## Overview

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To understand this document, it is important to know that the
communication between the client and the remote services uses a
request-response message exchange pattern.
```

> On a high level, the Key Value Service adheres to the following communication protocol:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a high level, these request and response messages adhere to the following communication protocol:
```

-   Data is transmitted over HTTPS using the `POST` method.
-   Data within the request and response is encrypted with [HPKE].

> -   The core request and response data is in [CBOR].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The core request and response data is encoded using [CBOR].
```

### Encryption {#encryption}

The Key Value Service uses [HPKE] with the following configuration for encryption:

-   KEM (Key encapsulation mechanisms): 0x0020 DHKEM(X25519, HKDF-SHA256), see
    {{Section 1 of HPKE}}
-   KDF (key derivation functions): 0x0001 HKDF-SHA256, see {{Section 7.2 of HPKE}}
-   AEAD (Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data): AES-256-GCM, see
    {{Section 7.3 of HPKE}}

The server is repurposing the [OHTTP] encapsulation mechanism ({{Section 4.6 of OHTTP}}), new
media types need to be defined:

-   The OHTTP request media type is `message/ad-auction-trusted-signals-request`
-   The OHTTP response media type is `message/ad-auction-trusted-signals-response`

These media types are concatenated with other fields when creating the [HPKE] encryption context.

### Message Framing {#framing}

> Inside the ciphertext, the requests and responses have the following framing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before encryption and after decryption, the requests and responses have the following framing:
```

| Byte     | 0         | 0             | 1 to 4   | 5 to Size+4       | Size+5 to end   |
| -------- | --------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| Bits     | 7-2       | 1-0           | \*       | \*                | \*              |
| -------- | --------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------- | --------------- |

> | Contents | Unused    | Compression   | Size     | Request Payload   | Padding         |

Reviewer: I think we should use some bits to specify a version number, like B&A does.

Author: I'd like to resolve this for now and if we do decide to add it, I'll do that in a follow-up

> The request/response is framed with a 5 byte header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request/response is framed with this 5 byte header.
```

> The first byte is the format+compression byte. The lower 2 bits are used for compression

Reviewer: This should link to the #compression section.

Author: Done.

> The first byte is the format+compression byte. The lower 2 bits are used for compression
> specification. The higher 6 bits are currently unused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first byte is the format+compression byte. The lower 2 bits specify the format and compression.
The higher 6 bits are currently unused.
```

The following 4 bytes are the length of the request message in network byte order.

> Then the request is zero padded to a set of pre-configured lengths.

Reviewer: This should link to the #padding section.

### Format+compression byte {#compression}

| Compression | Description                    |
| :---------: | :----------------------------- |
|    0x00     | [CBOR], no compression         |
|    0x01     | [CBOR], compressed in [Brotli] |
|    0x02     | [CBOR], compressed in [GZIP]   |

For requests, the byte value is 0x00. For responses, the byte value depends on the

> `acceptCompression` field in the request and the server behavior.

Reviewer: Can we link this to the definition of acceptCompression?

> ### Padding {#padding}

Reviewer: Can we move this sentence into another section?  I don't think it makes sense to have a one sentence section. 
 Preferably move it alongside where we specify how padding is done, like line 127.

Author: Done.

Padding is applied with sizes as multiples of 2^n KBs ranging from 0 to 2MB. So the valid response
sizes will be `[0, 128B, 256B, 512B, 1KB, 2KB, 4KB, 8KB, 16KB, 32KB, 64KB, 128KB, 256KB, 512KB, 1MB,
2MB]`.

## Core Request Data {#request}

Requests are not compressed and have a tree-like hierarchy:

-   Each request contains one or more partitions. Each partition is a collection of keys that can be
    processed together by the service without any potential privacy leakage. Keys from one interest

>     group must be in the same partition. Keys from different interest groups with the same joining

Reviewer: I think we need to explain or link to definitions of "interest group" and "joining site" here.

Author: Done.

    site may or may not be in the same partition.
-   Each partition contains one or more key groups. Each key group has its unique attributes among
    all key groups in the partition. The attributes are represented by a list of `tags`. Besides
    tags, the key group contains a list of keys to look up.
-   Each partition has a unique id.
-   Each partition has a compression group field. Results of partitions belonging to the same
    compression group can be compressed together in the response. Different compression groups must

>     be compressed separately. See more details below.

Reviewer: Can we link "See more details below" to the details?

Author: Done.

### Encryption {#request-encryption}

The request is encrypted with [HPKE]. The request uses a repurposed [OHTTP] encapsulation format
(see {{Section 4.3 of OHTTP}} and {{Section 4.6 of OHTTP}}) with a
`message/ad-auction-trusted-signals-request` media type instead of `message/bhttp request`.

### Request Schema {#request-schema}

The request is a [CBOR] encoded message with the following [CDDL] schema:

~~~~~ cddl
request = {
    ? acceptCompression: [* tstr],

>     ; must contain at least one of none, gzip, brotli

Reviewer: if "none" is a string, we should put quotes around none, gzip, and brotli

Author: Done.

---
coding: utf-8

title: "Protected Audience Key Value Service APIs"
abbrev: "KV Servers APIs"
docname: draft-ietf-protected-audience-key-value-server-api-latest
category: std
submissionType: IETF

area: TBD
workgroup: TBD
keyword: Internet-Draft

ipr: trust200902

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    name: Peiwen Hu
    organization: Google
    email: peiwenhu@google.com
 -
    ins: B. R. Hamilton
    name: Benjamin "Russ" Hamilton
    organization: Google
    email: behamilton@google.com

normative:
  RFC8949: CBOR
  RFC8610: CDDL
  RFC8259: JSON
  RFC9458: OHTTP
  RFC9180: HPKE
  RFC1952: GZIP
  RFC7932: Brotli

> informative:

Reviewer 2: Why are all of these under "informative" references? Informative references are used in explanations of use cases and applications. They are not supposed to describe how to implement parts of a standard. The ones listed below also seem essential to describing the standard, so they should be normative references. Perhaps just replace the current "normative" references with these references and leave "informative" empty.

Author: Done.

security and prevent abuse.

## Scope

This document provides a specification for the request and response message format that a client can
use to communicate with the Key Value Service as part of the client's implementation of the
Protected Audience API.

This document does not describe distribution of private keys to the Key Value Service.

## Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT",
"RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as
described in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}} when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as
shown here.

The key word "client" is to be interpreted as an implementation of this document that creates
Requests ({{request}}) and consumes Responses ({{response}}). The key phrase "Key Value Service" is
to be interpreted as an implementation of this document that consumes Requests and creates
Responses.

# Message Format Specifications {#format}

## Overview

On a high level, the Key Value Service adheres to the following communication protocol:

-   Data is transmitted over HTTPS using the `POST` method.

> -   Data within the request and response is encrypted with [HPKE] using [OHTTP].

Reviewer 2: We're not using [OHTTP].

Author: Done.

    }
  ]
}
~~~~~

## Core Response Data {#response}

The response is compressed. The compression is applied independently to each compression group. That
means, the response object mainly contains a list of compressed blobs, each for one compression
group. Each blob is for outputs of one or more partitions, sharing the same `compressionGroup` value
as specified in the request.

### Encryption {#response-encryption}

The response uses the a similar encapsulated response format to that used by [OHTTP] (see

> {{Section 4.4 of OHTTP}}), but with the custom `message/ad-auction-trusted-signals-request`

Reviewer: Should the response have the response media type? not request?

Author: Done.
